American Horror Story is there anything
the show hasn't covered over its eight
year tenure Ryan Murphy stuck just about
everything in there from sadistic
surgeons to aliens and psychotic nuns
the bloodthirsty ghosts - not one but
two literal Insane Clown Posse's the
show has given us iconic ly badass which
is sumptuous vampires and even a
troublingly attractive Antichrist up
until apocalypse the connections between
the seasons of American Horror Story
were tenuous at best mostly thanks to
the cameos from characters with main
storylines in different seasons like
when Queenie shows up at the hotel
Cortez in American Horror Story for then
apocalypse happened and everything
finally clicked confirming that yes the
seasons all took place in the same
universe on the same timeline and that
the events of one season had serious
effects on the following seasons but
because American Horror Story covers a
massive span of time this sideline gets
pretty complex a lot of events from
different seasons occur simultaneously
and oh yeah don't forget about the
completely alternate timeline that
Mallory creates at apocalypse by
time-traveling using the power of
tempest infinitum wrapping your head
around everything that happens during
the course of this series is almost as
challenging as performing the seven
wonders but we're here to guide you
through the dark
I'm Jacob with cinematic ax and this is
the american horror story timeline just
in time for 1984 Roanoke history 1500s
it's safe to say that outside storylines
involving divine beings like Satan
who've been around since almost the
beginning of humanity the earliest major
event in the series takes place in
Roanoke in the 1500s the witch Scottish
steps off the boat in the colonies and
quickly ascends to the position of
supreme making her the first known
Supreme in the new world at least
according to the series then in 1587
John White leader Roanoke goes traipsing
off leaving his wife Thomasin in charge
in the interim like many women in
history she's brutally punished after a
few years of trying to make any kind of
influential decisions and her husband's
absence and the villagers and her own
ungrateful son klappas scolds bridle on
her and banished her to the forest to
die she saved by Scottish who
essentially buys Thomas and soul from
her after becoming scavenges number one
Stan Thomas and returns to the village
and makes everyone commit human
sacrifices to her girl gaga
and when Thomasin finds out that the
villagers are super into it she goes on
a mass murdering spree before letting
cih kill her effectively bonding
everybody's souls to the land and
turning herself into the butcher an
immortal servant of Scots who emerges
during the Blood Moon every
October oh also in Apocalypse we learned
that in 1590 when all of this is going
down a Roanoke another enterprising
witch named Agnes Sampson figures out a
particularly gory way to kill warlocks
but she's burned at the stake before she
can get to those boys something that'll
allow all of us to enjoy Billie Porter's
portrayal of the Warlock behold but also
you know leaving the path to ascension
for the Antichrist wide open coven
history 1700s to 1804 about two hundred
years after that Scottish reigns supreme
in the American colonies then in coven
we learned about another supreme
prudence Mathur is a witch who escapes
the Salem trials in 1692 with her coven
they eventually set up shop down in New
Orleans without dear prudence and get
into a turf war with the voodoo Queens
who already live there it's hard to
imagine that rivalry without Madame
LaLaurie and Marie Laveau but they
aren't even born until 1787 in 1801
respectively also New Orleans miss
robichaux's Academy for exceptional
young ladies opens in 1790 as a
finishing school for wealthy girls a
totally normal building devoid of
witchcraft at the time two years later
the ill-fated Edouard Philippe Mott
builds the shaker mansion on top of the
Roanoke sight and then dies promptly at
the hands of the butcher
don't worry though the Maude family line
continues on in his descendant Danby
Mott who we have the misfortune to meet
in freakshow in 1830 Madame Laurie moves
in with her daughter's to New Orleans
after three long years of stomaching
their mother's signature sadistic
skincare regimen the daughters plot to
kill her Madame LaLaurie hears about
their plans and imprisons them in a
slave cage which is a bad call for
everyone around the same time Marie
Laveau summons Papa Legba and gives her
firstborn son to him in exchange for
immortality
despite Manimal Laurie's crimes against
her slaves Marie Laveau doesn't really
get involved with her until one of the
imprisoned daughters tries to rape a
slave named Bastion in her typical
fashion while laurie decides to go super
sadistic and she affixed as a severed
bulls head to bastions had his
punishment killing him in the process
little does she know that Bastion is
Marie Laveau's lover looking for revenge
Laveau murders lalaurie's family then
makes her immortal and buries her alive
so that she can live with the grief of
seeing her dead family for eternity Ryan
Murphy really likes making Kathy Bates
disgruntled and immortal as we'll see
throughout the series oh and Marie
Laveau also tries to resurrect poor
Bastian but it doesn't exactly go as
planned since he comes back as Minotaur
instead of himself I mean what did you
think was gonna happen after this
incident their rivalry takes a timeout
through the 1860s when that whole Civil
War
is happening during this period miss
robichaux's is repurposed as a hospital
and later converted into the witch
school we've come to know hotel history
1890s to 1910s it's nearly the turn of
the century 1893 and back in Roanoke
serial-killer Kincaid polkas going whole
hog well ok his pigs are going whole hog
on it they eat him alive the pigs eat
him alive much like poor Bastian he
returns from the dead as half-man
half-beast and becomes the piggy man who
joins the butcher and terrorizing the
poor inhabitants of the shaker house for
all time a couple years later Rudolph
Valentino and James March are born both
destined for the hotel Cortez a torrid
love affair with Elizabeth Johnson and a
largely uncomfortable immortality also
around this time Edward mordrake a
murderous two-faced freak from England
joins a circus and slaughters his whole
troupe on Halloween cementing him and
legend and also granting him an
uncomfortable immortality really
uncomfortable immortality is a lot of
what American Horror Story is ultimately
about well to be fair there is also a
lot of uncomfortable mortality too in
1910 Briarcliff Manor is built and
becomes the largest tuberculosis ward on
the east coast which means something
like 46,000 patients die there before
it's shuttered legend has it that once
you were committed at Briarcliff you
never got out
in 1919 back at miss robichaux's the
witches and the coven trap a
particularly jazzy serial killer called
the axe man and the academy and kill him
thus binding his spirit to the house a
few years pass and in 1922 Murder House
is built by dr. Charles Montgomery
surgeon to the stars and I think we all
remember how well that turns out around
the same time the hotel Cortez goes up
around town and well it's not explicitly
called the murder hotel wealthy
developers slash serial killer James
March built it for that express purpose
and he gets to work on getting his hands
dirty anyway remember our old friend
Rudolph well he comes to stay at the
hotel after it opens Elizabeth Johnson
falls in love with him before he
contracts vampirism from a doctor during
a movie a year goes by before she sees
him again and thinking Rudolph has died
Elizabeth marries James March for the
money the truth comes out in both cases
and Elizabeth makes the best of it she
convinces James to murder the rich if he
must murder we at cinematic awill always
stand an anti-capitalist Queen and she
becomes a vampire too she plans to run
away with Rudolph and his wife Natasha
so that they can travel the world
together as a
higher-power throuple but James finds
out and traps Natasha and Rudolph in the
walls of the hotel Cask of Amontillado
style Elizabeth the epitome of drama
believes they've abandoned her and
decides to become the countess now with
the express goal of seducing beautiful
people and turning them into vampires
like herself James for his part freaks
out in a different way and begins the 10
commandments killings meanwhile across
the country the town from cults
Brookfield Heights Michigan is
established but before we get to that
particularly frightening place we're
joining the circus for a while freak
show history 1920s to 1960s in 1928
business is booming for freak shows and
poor sweet lobster claw Jimmy Darling is
born a live freak birth to strongman
Dell Toledo and bearded woman Ethel
darling this cements his rocky
relationship with his mother and with
the circus for the next decade in 1932
Elsa Mars is drugged and kidnapped in
Germany where her assistant a Nazi
doctor named hans gruper films the act
of amputating both of her legs before
attempting to kill her in a snuff film
she escapes and over the next decade
adopts pepper
yes the same pepper from asylum and
starts her freak show where she recruits
Jimmy and his family to perform along
with the rest of her troupe in 1941 the
murderous con man Stanley uses Maggie
Esmeralda who's posing as a
fortune-teller to gain access to Elsa's
freaks so that he can kill them and sell
their body parts or in ma petites case
her whole body to museums dedicated to
showcasing the macabre for a profit a
few years later twisty the clown escapes
the traveling carnival he's with and
opens his own toy shop which does not go
well he unsuccessfully attempts suicide
by putting a shotgun in his mouth hence
that scary two themed mask he wears
while he's on the run
in the 50s Don and Ben Tabler join
Elsa's freak show and dandy Mott finds
twisty during a kill where he decides to
become the clown's protege they wind up
at Elsa's freak show one night and to
protect her coterie
Elsa summons Edward mordrake to kill
twisty which only really makes twistiest
scary bloodthirsty amoral clown but okay
dandies taken by Dodd and Bette who
disagree about how they feel about him
but it doesn't really matter in the end
since Elsa ends up selling them to him
anyway Jimmy doesn't feel right about
the situation and rescues the twins
dandy freaks out and murders an entire
Tupperware party of women making it
probably the liveliest Tupperware party
ever thrown and as retribution for
taking the twins dandy frames jimmy for
the murders jimmy is arrested but in
1953 the freaks break Jimmy out of
prison
they also figure out the truth about
Stanley and murder him for killing their
friends later that year Elsa sells the
Freak Show to dandy for $10,000 a real
steal and things take a serious turn for
the worse when dandy can't make money on
ticket sales he systematically murders
the freaks one by one with the exception
of the twins who agreed to marry him
under clear duress things work out in
the end though when the remaining freaks
tricked dandy into climbing into a
Chinese water torture device where they
drown him that son of Chinese water
torture works at all Dandy's house the
shaker mansion in Roanoke who goes up
for sale
Elsa gets a star on the Hollywood Walk
of Fame and then she kills herself by
performing on Halloween much to the
delight of Edward mordrake by 1960 Jimmy
and the twins are pregnant in 1961 Marie
Laveau is reanimating corpses to kill
off a racist lynch mob in Louisiana and
in 1962 Briarcliff Manor reopens in
Maryland as an insane asylum asylum
history 1962 to 1967 the very same year
the Briarcliff opens pepper is committed
there having been framed for the murder
of her sister's baby
the Reverend Monsignor who runs the
asylum agrees to let dr. Arthur Arden
the doctor formerly known as hans gruper
who you may remember from cutting off
elsa Mars's legs conduct experiments on
the patients there so what could
possibly go wrong in the next few years
kid Walker and Leigh Emerson are
committed for mass murders though in
kits case wrongfully so and a journalist
named Lana winters attempts to sneak in
after hours but is caught and committed
for being queer
she's tortured with electroshock therapy
and in the meantime Kitts wife Alma is
abducted by extraterrestrials
at this point sure why not also at this
point in the season there's a really
weird plot point with Anne Frank but you
know what we're just gonna skip past
that and Frank whoever she is
in 1964 Lana manages to break out of
Briarcliff with a patient named Oliver
thredson but when they get out he tells
her that he's the real bloody face
killer and holds her hostage their car
crashes on Lana wakes up back in
Briarcliff and is all one of the
security guards Frank is murdered by
sister Eunice who's possessed by a demon
by the way because of course she is but
demon Eunice pins it on sister Jude
who's committed as a patient and
tortured nearly to death Grace and
pepper are abducted by the previously
mentioned aliens and returned to
Briarcliff in 1965 alive and extremely
pregnant sister Eunice is thrown from
the roof of Briarcliff by monseigneur
and dr. Arden futs is around with her
dead body without realizing that she's
been kissed by the
of death so he dies this season is wild
y'all kit grace and Lana are released
from Briarcliff but pepper dies in its
confines by the time kit returns home
with grace his abducted wife Alma's been
returned safe and sound well maybe not
to sound since she promptly dispatches
grace with an ax to open
Lana writes a best-seller on her
year-long tenure at Briarcliff and
exposes all of her as the bloody face
killer before gunning him down in his
home in 1967 KITT can't handle almost
alien talk and checks her into
Briarcliff which is a pretty dick move
in my opinion but hey she didn't cut
down my girlfriend so either way Alma
ends up dying in Briarcliff before it's
abandoned and shut down in 1971
following the success of Lana winters
television expose of the facility's
murder House history 1968 to 1994 over
in LA in 1968 someone thought it was a
great idea to convert Murder House into
a sorority house for nursing students
and it ends up about the way you think
it would with lots of blood and not like
blood as in their nursing students it's
not like that the house goes back on the
market and Constance Langdon an aspiring
actress from Virginia buys it and moves
in hoping to make it big in LA oh and
don't forget this is also just about
when Fiona murders Anna Leigh Leighton
down at miss robichaux's and New Orleans
in order to become the new supreme okay
alright
in 1972 Molson year slits his wrists in
the bathtub overcome with guilt
following the closure of Briarcliff
Constance gives birth to Adelaide her
first child who's born differently-abled
and gives up on her acting dreams to
raise her though I'm not sure what
Constance puts Adelaide through can
really be called raising a child
sometime after Constance also gives
birth to another differently abled child
Bo whom she keeps chained up in the
Attic at murder house naturally
meanwhile it's the same old story over
at the Roanoke House in 1973 and nice
family the Chen's move in and are
promptly dispatched by the butcher over
at hotel Cortez the countess is still a
break in hearts and taken names and
humanity she seduces and turns a b-movie
Queen Ramona Royale and the to start a
long-standing love affair
five years later Constance gives birth
to her second child a boy named Tate and
abandons murder house with the intention
of refurbishing and I'm moving back in
the next year in 1978 while the murder
house is abandoned two neighborhood kids
venture into the house only to be
brutally murdered by the atrocity that
is the infant otta the hideous result of
Charles Montgomery's attempts to
resurrect the child his wife Nora killed
in the house the 80s roll around in kid
is abducted
by the aliens which is a fair price to
pay for gas lighting his wife to death
if you ask me murder house is fully
refurbished and Constance moves back in
with her kids she catches her husband
cheating on her with the maid Moira and
well murders them both if the name of
the house hasn't clued you in on what
happens here in 1984 the countess takes
in a woman named Nick Pryor but instead
of turning her helps her transition into
Liz Taylor who like her namesake is
fabulous
she has Liz work at the hotel and treats
Liz with kindness and affection another
unfortunate duo moves into the shaker
house in Roanoke in 1988 although this
time the occupants Miranda and bridge
Jane are no less evil than the butcher
really they open up shaker house has an
assisted living facility though with
these two in-charge is more of an
assisted dying facility their ageist
killing spree ends when the butcher
takes them out in the early 90s a man
named Larry Harvey moves into the murder
house with his wife and two kids when
she finds out that he's been seduced by
Constance his wife self-immolate staking
her two kids with her in the flames
Constance and her family moved back in
this time with Larry meanwhile Ramona
and the countess split and Ramona falls
in love with a man who calls himself the
prophet Moses she turns him and they
build a crew together until the countess
wipes out all of them but Ramona
Ramona's all but as we already know the
countess doesn't do brakes back at the
murder house Larry smothers beau with a
pillow at Constance his behest prompting
Kate to light him on fire
Ted then goes on a rage induced shooting
spree at his school killing 15 students
before a SWAT chase him back to murder
house and shoot him down there Hotel
history continued 1994 to 2012 by now
it's 1994 and two junkies Sally and
Donovan check into hotel Cortez to shoot
up Donovan's mother iris follows them
and in a fit of rage murder Sally for
turning her son into a junkie trapping
Sally spirit in the hotel Donovan is
saved from the brink of overdose by the
countess who turns him into a vampire
and her main love interest
iris comes on as the hotel manager
because apparently murdering people gets
you some pretty good street cred with
vampires and serial killer ghosts who
would have thought in 1997 Elias
Cunningham films the history of the
Roanoke House then not much happens in
the American Horror Story universe until
2010 when a gay couple named Chadwick
and Patrick move into the murder house
in order to flip it but they're murdered
by the rubber man before they can do so
then a family Ben Vivian and their
daughter violent move into the
how's violet then becomes romantic with
Tate's ghost meanwhile across town
detective John Lowe comes to the hotel
Cortez for the first time and he meets
with the ghost of James Marsh who
convinces him to continue the 10
commandments killings
time gets all wonky for stuff with John
Lowe because he's all messed up but
basically over the next four years John
both personally sees out these Ten
Commandment copycat killings and is the
lead investigator in the cases until
nearly the end of the hotel season where
he comes to and realizes what he's done
and who he is back a murder house violet
commits suicide with pills in order to
be with Tate and the rubber man and Ben
simultaneously impregnate Vivien in 2012
she gives birth to two children one
ben's child is stillborn the other the
son of the rubber man aka Tate is alive
and healthy Vivien dies from
complications during childbirth and
Constance takes the healthy baby Michael
to raise us her own and yeah you guessed
it he grows up to become that Michael
Langdon the Antichrist and apocalypse
who proves to be such a thorn in all the
witches sides
speaking of witches coven history
continued 2013 to 2015 in 2013 Cordelia
finds and recruits new witches to teach
at miss robichaux's Academy the new
recruits are Queenie Mann Madison misty
and Zoe each of whom had been chosen for
displaying different strange powers
they're not only being taught the ways
of magic but also being groomed to take
on the role of supreme when Fiona passes
which doesn't sit well with Fiona
remember how she got the position of
supreme in the first place to help
prevent this fiona digs up madam will
lori and forces her to keep an eye on
madison specifically seemingly the most
powerful of the five Laveau is not
having that however and a war breaks out
between the coven and the voodoo
practitioners there's a very strange
hook up between Queenie and the mentor
and she gets gravely injured fiona cuts
off the bull's head and sends it to
marie in the warning marie obviously is
far from pleased considering that the
Minotaur was her former beau bastion she
throws acid in Cornelius face burning
out her eyes and rendering her blind but
gifting her with the sight which allows
her to see visions specifically visions
of Fiona killing Madison Myrtle is
framed for this attack and burned at the
stake fiona eventually kills madison
herself fearing that she's about to
become supreme but misty resurrects her
and Myrtle when she joins the coven when
myrtle comes back to life she murders
the two members of the witches council
that sentenced her to death and restores
cornelisz eyesight by gifting her one
eye from each of them how thoughtful
but it only winds up getting her put
back on the stake where she burns for
real this time
one of the most iconic scenes of the
series the five new recruits perform the
seven wonders leaving only Queenie alive
by the end of the trials Cornelia
becomes the new supreme something which
Fiona tries in vain to stop by summoning
Papa Legba and offering up her soul he
claps back at her that she has no soul
to give though she dies in Cordelia's
arms after Cordelia ascends to supreme
she goes public with the fact that
witches exist and the warlocks move
underground to Hawthorne fearing
discrimination cult history 2015 to 2018
meanwhile Shelby and Matt Miller move
into the Roanoke House and barely make
it out alive their experiences inspire a
reality TV show called my Roanoke
nightmare multiple film crews die
shooting the series which airs in 2015
to much acclaim in Michigan a young Kai
and winter visit the judgment house
where pastor Charles is torturing his
inhabitants Kai kills the pastor in act
which later earned some points with ivy
one of the cults new recruits fashion
designer will Drake buys the hotel
Cortez and marries the countess and
Ramona kills Queenie draining her blood
and thus trapping her in the hotel years
later Cordelia will try to rescue
Queenie at the hotel but it won't work
only Michael can free her which earns
him enough trust with the coven that
they're willing to let him perform the
seven wonders to see if he truly is the
Alpha back in 2015 John Lowe kills the
countess completing James marches Ten
Commandments Michael Langdon is growing
up in Constance as care showing all the
signs of your average budding serial
killer getting small animals killing his
nanny you know kid stuff
but then he ages a decade overnight and
almost strangles Constance before he
stops himself feeling like a failed
mother Constance commits suicide then we
have 2016 the year that Donald Trump
runs for office and eventually becomes
president which is the actual scariest
thing that happens in this series it's a
good thing that this is escapist drama
and would never happen in the real world
alway cult focuses on this election
filtered through the experiences of a
budding cult leader Kai and his devotees
who are based out of Brookfield Heights
Michigan at the beginning of the season
Ally and Ivy are a lesbian couple with a
son who feel threatened by their
conservative neighbors the Wilton's
chi-square sister winter seduces ivy and
convinces ivy to join the cult by
helping her get revenge on Geary a trump
supporter who groped her at a Hillary
rally they chained him to a pole the day
before the election and KY convinces him
to sawed off his own arm in order to go
vote Donald Trump wins the election and
ties cult murder several people while
wearing costumes designed to look like
twists
the clown from freakshow alley joins
Kai's cult in 2017 as a secret informant
for the FBI
soon after Kai learns that there's a
mole in the cult and kills winter
believing she's the weak link the mole
actually turns out to be a local militia
man named Speedwagon Ali kills him
eventually Kai's thrown in jail and Ali
runs for Senate although Kai breaks out
of jail in 2018 to make an attempt on
Ali's life he fails gunned down by the
always loyal Beverly hope apocalypse
history 2018 to 2024 while all of this
is going down young Michael Langdon is
being raised by me to Satanist who will
later be made into an Android he kills a
butcher butcher not the butcher and gets
locked up but the Warlock spring him
from the prison suspecting he is the
Alpha the strongest male witch he goes
and rescues Madison and Queenie aces and
seven wonders and voila he is crowned
the alpha they quickly learned that he
is the Antichrist though so back in
Roanoke the lone survivor of return to
Roanoke kills herself and the Roanoke
house goes up in flames the witches
pinned their hopes on a student named
Mallory who has the power of time travel
this creates another timeline entirely
which we're gonna get to in a minute so
calm down Michael learns that the
witches have turned on him and he breaks
in to miss robichaux's with the help of
Dinah Stevens a witch turned traitor he
murders almost all of the witches some
of them including Mallory escaped to
outpost 3 while the world outside burns
and a nuclear apocalypse once there
Michael storms the outpost ready to kill
the newly resurrected coven but Mallory
is able to perform Tempest infinitum
before he reaches her she goes back in
time to 2015 to interrupt Michaels young
life at Murder House she mows him down
with her car making sure that he's dead
and thus launching the alternate
timeline where no one but Michael has
died and the apocalypse is subverted
however a new Antichrist is born in 2024
well American Horror Story 1984
addressed the new Antichrist from the
looks of things we're headed back in
time not forward though with Ryan Murphy
at the helm who knows what might happen
thanks for watching our American Horror
Story timeline are you gonna check out
the new season did we miss anything tell
us in the comments once again I've been
Jacob with cinematic ax and we'll see
you next time